# EthicalHackingLab

Repo for final project for Phase 1

To jumpstart my lab, I started by downloading Virtualbox and configuring its software. The primary use of Virtualbox is to support and operate multiple operating systems . Virtual box allows you to work, develop and experiment on multiple operating systems on a single device.  I stored my supporting software here : (3 Kali Linux Virtual Machines, Pfsense+Snort, Wazuh). 

Next, I created a network of machines using virtualbox and configured them all to have ssh access. First, I needed to download my 64-bit Kali Linux Operating System that included the top 10 security tools. Kali is an open-source Debian-based distribution and contains industry specific modifications as well as several hundred tools. These tools are targeted towards various 
Information Security tasks, such as Penetration Testing, Security Research, Computer Forensics, Reverse Engineering, Vulnerability Management and Red Team Testing. Kali was downloaded using 2 gigabytes of RAM and 2 CPU. After completing my Kali Linux download , I went into the network settings to configure adapter 1 and 2. I configured adapter 1 to a NAT network (allows guests to connect to the Internet through host connection) . Adapter 2 will be assigned as a host-only network. The host machine was cloned 2 times. Both cloned Kali machines' names were changed to Kali_1 and Kali_2. Network interfaces were configured to set static ip addresses as 192.168.56.100 and 192.168.56.101 with a subnet mask of 255.255.255.0. SSH was enabled in both Kali terminals. I tested both Kali machines using their IP addresses and the ping command. All machines were set up successfully. 

I wanted to make my virtual lab unique by adding different types of software so I decided to install a Windows 10 Pro Virtual machine. I downloaded a media creation tool which generated a Windows ISO file. Once downloaded, you want to create the installation media and select ISO file. From there, I opened the software into my Virtual box and used 2 gigs and 1 CPU . Windows 10 virtual machine was successfully installed. 
Downloading Pfsense was the next step in setting up my hacking lab. Having an IDPS installed was put in place to monitor the network's traffic for abnormal activity and potential threats. The AMD 64-bit version of Pfsense was downloaded and configured to act as a firewall/router for my network. Pfsense was extracted using 7zip . Using 7zip for the Pfsense software created a new folder that contained a gunzipped version of the file. The software was uploaded and configured as a BSD file type and as the 64-bit version. 2 gigabytes of RAM and 2 CPUs of  memory was used for Pfsense download. Adapter 1 was set as a NAT network, Adapter 2 and 3 were both set as internal networks. After going through the installation steps, I had to unmount the pfsense installation and reboot the software. Failing to remove the ISO file from the virtual box before rebooting would lead us back to the initial steps of the installation process. The IP address of Pfsense was 192.168.20.9 and I entered it in my web browser in Kali to access it.

After a successful Pfsense install, Snort was added onto my IDPS. A Security Information and Event Management (SIEM) tool such as Snort is often integrated with an Intrusion Detection and Prevention System (IDPS) to enhance overall cybersecurity capabilities. Snort can correlate events and logs from different security devices, including the IDPS. This correlation helps in identifying patterns and potential security incidents that may go unnoticed when analyzing individual logs. Accessing my Pfsense, I was able to go through the package manager and install my Snort onto my IDPS. When configuring Snort’s settings I was asked to enter my oinkcode. From there I was able to edit global settings and WAN settings and rules.
Installing Wazuh, I opened up Virtualbox and imported the download using expert mode. I used 2 Gigs for Wazuh and enabled the adapter as a NAT network. After starting my machine, I received an IP address of a192.168.1.136. I used my Kali browser to visit the address and was successful. SIEM solutions allow organizations to efficiently collect and analyze log data from all of their digital assets in one place. This gives them the ability to recreate past incidents or analyze new ones to investigate suspicious activity and implement more effective security processes. 

Lastly, I had to download my virtual machine that served as the victim machine. Vulnhub is where I downloaded my vulnerable machine called Mr.Robot. Once Mr.Robot was downloaded I uploaded the file onto my virtual box and set its network to internal. The purpose of this vulnerable machine is to practice and enhance their skills in identifying and exploiting vulnerabilities. The vulnerable machine serves as a simulated target that participants can attempt to compromise using ethical hacking techniques.
